EP2025 selection process description (#942)
EuroPython/website: src/content/pages/programme/selection.mdx

---
title: Selection Process
subtitle: How we select talks for EuroPython 2025
---
# Selection Process
To ensure our programme reflects our diverse community, submissions go through up to four rounds of review and refinement before the final programme is announced:

* **NEW! Feedback on proposal (first 100 proposals submitted only):**

> The first 100 proposals will be reviewed by the programme team, and feedback for any possible improvements will be given. This will be done within the CfP submission window to allow you to make changes to your proposal. Please note that this is a **one-off** review and is distinct from the mentoring program.

Reviewer: 1. When mentioning CfP for the first time, it’s better to write it as Call for Proposals (CfP) for clarity.
2. This sounds like the programme team might provide detailed feedback to all of the first 100 proposals. Will feedback be given to all 100, or only to those that could benefit from improvement?
3. I had the impression that the screening phase is to be a quick check for obvious issues, not a full review. Phrasing like "feedback on any possible improvement" makes it sound more in-depth. If you do not intend to give detailed reviews, might be useful to tone it down to set expectations?

Reviewer 2: 1. Perfect, happy to change it to Call for Proposals (CfP) for the first mention.
2. We do intend to send feedback to all of the first 100, but proposals that we don't think have a chance improving with tailored feedback will receive a generic template with general tips on creating a strong proposal.
3. I'm also happy with your wording changes to manage expectations. So the first sentence could read something like "The first 100 proposals will be quickly screened by the programme team, and any feedback we have for possible improvements will be given." Wdyt? A bit less ambitious?

Reviewer: The new wording sounds good to me! And thanks for the explanations! <3

Author: Changed the first sentence now. Does it look like it should?

Reviewer: LGTM! Thanks! <3

* **Community voting:**
Open to all 2015–2025 EuroPython conference ticket holders and anyone who proposes a talk for the 2025 conference. This helps us judge the uniqueness, specificity, popularity, and appeal of each proposal.
* **Panel feedback:**

> A diverse group of experienced reviewers refines and provides constructive feedback on submissions within their realm of expertise. This helps us judge the balance, quality, and diversity of our programme.

Reviewer: Are you intending to share the reviews with the submitters? I think "constructive feedback" suggests that way. If not, maybe changing "feedback" to "input" (open to other ideas) might soften the implication that comments will be shared externally.

Reviewer: Hmmm how about something like this? 
 `A diverse group of experienced reviewers evaluates submissions within their area of expertise, offering insights that help the programme team assess the balance, quality, and diversity of the programme.`

Reviewer 3: loved it!

> A diverse group of experienced reviewers refines and provides constructive feedback on submissions within their realm of expertise. This helps us judge the balance, quality, and diversity of our programme.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A diverse group of experienced reviewers evaluates submissions within their area of expertise, offering insights that help the programme team assess the balance, quality, and diversity of the programme.
```
